PREREQUISITES

Server Software:
  Apache 2.2, mod_ssl optional
  PHP 5.3 or greater
  MySQL 5.1

PHP Modules:
  PDO with MySQL module  (http://www.php.net/manual/en/ref.pdo-mysql.php)
  XSL  (http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.xsl.php)
  curl


CONFIGURING MYSQL

1. Create a database and a user that can access the database:

  mysql -u root -p
  > create database notepad;
  > grant all on notepad.* to notepad_user@'%';
  > set password for notepad_user@'%' = PASSWORD('newpass');
  > flush privileges;
  > exit;

2. Run the file sql/mysql.sql to create the necessary tables in the database:

  mysql -u notepad_user -p --database=notepad < sql/mysql.sql

3. Create a user in the new application:

  mysql -u notepad_user -p --database=notepad
  > insert into users (openid, nickname, created, is_enabled, is_manager) values ('http://your/openid', 'newuser', NOW(), 1, 1);
  > exit;

You will need to determine what your OpenID URL is. For Google and Yahoo, this 
will change by the domain and will be impossible to predict. To determine what
OpenID URL is, try logging in before creating an account and the application
will insert your actual OpenID into the database and then you can run this
command to enable yourself:

  mysql -u notepad_user -p --database=notepad
  > update users set is_manager = 1, is_enabled = 1;
  > exit;


CONFIGURING APACHE

This program requires one things from Apache:

  mod_php enabled
  mod_proxy_http enabled

These will *usually* be enabled as shared libraries. If that is the case, you
should see lines such as these in your Apache configuration file:

  LoadModule php5_module            modules/libphp5.so

Configuring Apache is simple. Just take a look at the configuration example
for Apache under configuration/httpd.conf. Change the contents of that file as
appropriate and copy its contents to your Apache configuration files.


CONFIGURING ETHERPAD

In order to use the notepad, you must have Etherpad Lite installed and
configured. This involves installing node.js. Download Etherpad Lite from here:

  http://etherpad.org/

Follow the installation guide and that should be it.


CONFIGURING NOTEPAD

Once you've done all that, modify the default notepad configuration file,
called "default" to fill in your database username and password and the
hostname and timezone information.

When installing the Apache configuration file, you made a proxy declaration
pointing to the installation of Etherpad. You will need to update the
configuration file to work with this. The path to Etherpad will be whatever
you set your proxy path to, plus an additional /p/. So for example:

  ProxyPass /editor/ http://localhost:9001/
  ProxyPassReverse /editor/ http://localhost:9001/

Would have you set this:

  pad = /editor/p/

Whereas changing it to this:

  ProxyPass /editor/ http://localhost:9001/
  ProxyPassReverse /editor/ http://localhost:9001/

Would have you set this:

  pad = /notepad/editor/p/

Additionally, there are two keys that must be given. The first is generated
by the Etherpad software and is generally located in a file called APIKEY.txt.
This needs to be put into the configuration file here:

  apikey = asdf

And the URL to the API must also be given. This is probably shouldn't be any
different than the default:

  apiurl = http://localhost:9001/api

The final key is one that you make up but once you choose it, it cannot change
without making it very difficult to load your notepads again. This key is used
to group your public notepads together so that they can be found by all users:

  public_group_key = foobar

Just make this relatively unique; perhaps the domain name on which your site
runs. It doesn't matter. Just don't make it the same as any OpenID logins or
else there will be much confusion by the software as the OpenID login of each
user is used to create that user's private group.

